Chetan Bhagat is the author of six bestselling novels—Five Point Someone
(2004), One Night @ the Call Center (2005), The 3 Mistakes of My Life (2008),
2 States (2009), Revolution 2020 (2011) and Half Girlfriend (2014)—which
have sold over ten million copies and have been translated into over a dozen
languages worldwide.
In 2008, The New York Times called him ‘the biggest-selling author in
India’s history’, a position he has maintained to date. Almost all his books have
been adapted into hit Bollywood films. He is also a Filmfare-award-winning
screenplay writer.
TIME magazine named him as one of the 100 most influential people in the
world and Fast Company, USA, listed him as one of the 100 most creative
people in business globally. His columns in The Times of India and Dainik
Bhaskar are amongst the most widely read in the country. He is also one of the
country’s leading motivational speakers and has hosted several TV shows.
Despite all the above, he is only human and can be totally stupid sometimes.
Chetan went to college at IIT Delhi and IIM Ahmedabad, after which he
worked in investment banking for a decade before quitting his job to become a
full-time writer.
He is married to Anusha and is the father of twin boys, Shyam and Ishaan.
He lives in Mumbai.
I can’t possibly thank everyone who has contributed to this book. Every woman
who ever came into my life has played a part. You all know who you are, so in
case I missed you out, like always—sorry.
The ones I would like to thank here are:
God, for giving me so much.
Shinie Antony, my editor, friend, guide. She’s been with me from the start
and continues to be the first reader of all my books.
My readers, for blessing me with so much love. It is because of you that I
get to do what I love—tell stories.
The hundred-odd women I interviewed for this book, including that
Serbian DJ, the IndiGo flight attendants, the hotel staff wherever I stayed, the
various people I met at my motivational talks, the co-passengers on planes.
There was a phase when I discussed this book with every woman I came across.
Thank you for opening up and sharing your innermost feelings. It made the
book.
Alphabetically—Abha Bakaya, Aditi Prakash, Alisha Arora, Amit
Agarwal, Angela Wang, Anubha Bang, Anusha Venkatachalam, Ayesha Raval,
Avni Jhunjunwala, Bhakti Bhat, Ira Trivedi, Jessica Rosenberg, Karuna Suggu,
Krishen Parmar, Kushaan Parikh, Meghna Rao, Michelle Shetty, Nibha
Bhandari, Prateek Dhawan, Rachita Chauhan, Reema Parmar, Shalini Raghavan,
Virali Panchamia, Vivita Relan, Zitin Dhawan—for all the inspiration, support
and feedback at whatever point during the journey of this book, or even my life.
The editors at Rupa, for their relentless attempts to make the book better.
The salespersons at Rupa, the retailers who carry my books, the online
delivery boy or girl who brings my books to my reader’s doorstep—thank you.
My critics. For helping me improve and keeping my ego down.
My mother Rekha Bhagat, the first woman in my life. Anusha Bhagat, my
wife. Thanks.
My kids. For having a little less dad so there can be a little more author.
My extended family. Brother Ketan. In-laws. My cousins. Everyone who
has ever loved me.